Move to Poetry (#165)
ManimCommunity/manim: docs/source/installation/for_dev.rst

Manim Installation For Developers
=================================

> 	This documentation is for developers who wats to contribute to ``ManimCommunity/manim``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	This documentation is for developers who want to contribute to ``ManimCommunity/manim``.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manim community uses Poetry (instead of pip). We chose poetry because blah blah blah
```

Author: I am not gonna write this.

Reviewer: As you wish. But I think it would be of great help since poetry is not the standard. Explaining why we use a non-standard tool for development makes sense to me, and I would appreciate the explanation if I were the reader.

Author: No, wait you can't it as non-standard tool because it internally uses pip and it is a dependency management tools. See https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/managing-dependencies/ . Maybe if you ask me I will link to this.

Reviewer: When I say "non-standard" I mean that it is not the usual way of doing things. It is interesting that the official python documentation links and recommends poetry. But, this line 

```
Developers of Python libraries, or of applications that support distribution as Python libraries, should also consider the poetry project as an alternative dependency management solution.
```

says that it is _an alternative_. I assume that the vast majority of devs trying to contribute to manim will not have heard of poetry. It would be helpful if we left a link (if perhaps not a full explanation) for them :)

Installing Poetry
*****************

Poetry can be easily installed in any OS by just running the below command.

.. code-block:: bash
	
	curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python

> 

Reviewer: Question: Is this the only, or the official way to do it?

Author: It's the official way to do. Check https://python-poetry.org

Reviewer 2: Developers can install `poetry` with `pip`. See : https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended

They have mentioned that it is not recommended, but purely because installing with `pip` requires the developer to install `poetry` separately for each python version they have on their computer, for each project (which they will develop on multiple python versions) that requires poetry.

I think at least a large majority, if not all developers will develop manim only on a single python version, so installing poetry via pip should pose no issues.

Author: So what should be done? AFAIK, the doc explains it, and also I have linked to the site you linked in the bottom. So, I think it is good. Also, we should be recommending, not recommended, ways to install.

Reviewer 2: > So what should be done?

My suggestion would be to also include a note after the "recommended" instructions, the one which uses `curl`, saying that you can also use `pip` to install `poetry`, but have to install it for every python version you use to develop manim.

Maybe add it as a note, like the [note about `BasicTeX` vs `MacTeX` that was in the readme, and is now in the docs](https://manimce.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mac.html)?

> we should be recommending, the recommended ways to install.

My point is that the reason `poetry` recommend using the script they provide is because it works across multiple python versions. Most, if not all `manim` developers will only develop `manim` on a single `Python` version, so we don't have to worry about it not being a "recommended" method.

> If you are a Windows developer and want to use PowerShell, you can use the below command.

Reviewer: Issue: the previous line said that you can use `curl` on _any_ system. But this line is saying something different. This seems contradictory.

Suggestion: change the previous line to something like "if your system has the `curl` program, then you can write the following command. `curl` is usually installed on linux and Mac OS". The next line should say "in case you are on Windows/Powershell, blah blah blah "

.. code-block:: powershell
	
	(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py -UseBasicParsing).Content | python

It will add it to path automatically.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make sure you have poetry installed correctly, try running:
```

.. code-block:: bash

	poetry --version

.. note:: You may need to restart your shell in order for the changes to take effect.

See the `docs on installation python poetry for more information

> <https://python-poetry.org/docs/>`_.

Reviewer: praise: I like the addition of both these sentences

Installing System Dependencies
******************************

> This section had to followed as in :ref:`installing-manim`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions under :ref:`installing-manim` to install all dependencies. Then come back to this page to continue with the installation.
```

.. important:: Windows Users can Ignore Pycairo Installation.

> Additional `git` has to be installed. For instructions see `Documentation
> <https://git-scm.com/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, `git` has to be installed. For instructions see `Documentation
<https://git-scm.com/>`_.
```

.. _Install Manim Poetry:
Installing Manim using Poetry
*****************************

1.  First, clone the Manim repo locally using git.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim.git

    or

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone git@github.com:ManimCommunity/manim.git

2.  Open a Terminal/Powershell/Command Prompt and cd into the cloned directory.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		cd path/to/manim
    

    .. note:: This path should contain a file called `pyproject.toml` if it doesn't contain it, you would need to go a level up.

> 3.  Use the below command to install dependencies. This will use default python version installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Use the below command to install dependencies. This will use the default python version installed.
```

Question: The previous section says that the instructions in :ref:`installing-manim` have to be followed in order to install dependencies. But now this section says that this command will install the dependencies. This is contradictory, no?

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry install

>     .. note:: Poetry creates a virtual environment by default and no need to worry about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. note:: Poetry will create a virtual environment rooted at the current directory.
```

>     You can select the required python version using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can select the desired python version using 
```

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry env use <python version you need>

    For example you can use for python 3.7.

    .. code-block:: bash
	

>          poetry env use 3.7

Reviewer: I think there needs to be a blank line between this code block and the next sentence in order to render properly

    For more information about this you can visit the `docs
    <https://python-poetry.org/docs/managing-environments/>`_.

> 4. Now you can activate the virtual environment, ``Poetry`` had created in the previous step, use the below command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Now you can activate the virtual environment ``Poetry`` has created by using the command below.
```

  .. code-block:: bash

       poetry shell
    
  Or if you want to run a single command use

  .. code-block:: bash

       poetry run manim -h

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you are free to start developing on the manim repository.
```

Running the Tests Using Poetry
******************************

> After you have :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run the tests using by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` command and then running the command ``pytest`` to run the tests. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you are done with :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run manim's test suite by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` command and then running the command ``pytest`` to run the tests. 
```

> .. important:: You should run this test before making a PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. important:: You should always run the test suite before making a PR. For other contributing guidelines, see :ref:`Contributing`
```

Code Formatting Using Poetry
****************************

> After you have :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run the code formatter ``black`` by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` command and then running the command ``black manim`` to run the tests. Or alternatively just use the command ``poetry run black manim``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you are done with :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run the code formatter ``black`` by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` and then running the command ``black manim``. Or alternatively just use the command ``poetry run black manim``. 
```

> .. note:: Here ``manim`` used in command ``black manim`` or ``poetry run black manim`` is folder which ``black`` formats the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: Here, the word ``manim``, as used in the commands ``black manim`` or ``poetry run black manim``, refers to the folder which ``black`` is to format. You can also reformat the files containing the test suite by running the command ``black tests``.
```

Manim Installation For Developers
=================================

	This documentation is for developers who want to contribute to ``ManimCommunity/manim``.

Installing Poetry
*****************

Poetry can be easily installed in any OS by just running the below command.

If your system has the ``curl`` program installed, which is usually true in Linux and Mac,
.. code-block:: bash
	
	curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python

If you are a Windows developer and want to use PowerShell, you can use the below command.

> .. code-block:: powershell

Reviewer 3: Sphinx complains that 
```
.../manim/docs/source/installation/for_dev.rst:19: WARNING: Could not lex literal_block as "powershell". Highlighting skipped.
```

(powershell is an avaliable language for the highlighting though, not sure what is going wrong here.)

Author: I also noticed this. Idk what to do.

Reviewer: I also got this error way back. Let's just use `bash` or `sh` for now.

	
	(Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py -UseBasicParsing).Content | python

It will add it to path automatically. In order to make sure you have poetry installed correctly, try running:

.. code-block:: bash

	poetry --version

.. note:: You may need to restart your shell in order for the changes to take effect.

See the `docs on installation python poetry for more information
<https://python-poetry.org/docs/>`_.

Installing System Dependencies
******************************

> Please follow the instructions under :ref:`installing-manim` to install all dependencies. Then come back to this page to continue with the installation.

Author: Is this :ref:`installing-manim` point to doc installation.rst?

Reviewer: Yes, it points to the "installing manim" heading inside the `installation.rst` file.

.. important:: Windows Users can Ignore Pycairo Installation.

Additionally, ``git`` has to be installed. For instructions see `Documentation
<https://git-scm.com/>`_.

.. _Install Manim Poetry:

> Installing Manim using Poetry

Reviewer 3: Sphinx is complaining about a missing blank line after the link:
```
.../manim/docs/source/installation/for_dev.rst:47: WARNING: Explicit markup ends without a blank line; unexpected unindent.
```

*****************************

1.  First, clone the Manim repo locally using git.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim.git

    or

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone git@github.com:ManimCommunity/manim.git

2.  Open a Terminal/Powershell/Command Prompt and cd into the cloned directory.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		cd path/to/manim
    

    .. note:: This path should contain a file called `pyproject.toml` if it doesn't contain it, you would need to go a level up.

3.  Use the below command to install python dependencies. This will use the default python version installed.

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry install

    .. note:: Poetry will create a virtual environment rooted at the current directory.

>     You can select the desired python version using 

Reviewer 3: Missing indentation.

```
.../manim/docs/source/installation/for_dev.rst:79: WARNING: Explicit markup ends without a blank line; unexpected unindent.
```

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry env use <python version you need>

    For example you can use for python 3.7.

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry env use 3.7
     
    For more information about this you can visit the `docs
    <https://python-poetry.org/docs/managing-environments/>`_.

4. Now you can activate the virtual environment ``Poetry`` has created by using the command below.

  .. code-block:: bash

       poetry shell
    
  Or if you want to run a single command use

  .. code-block:: bash

       poetry run manim -h

Now you are free to start developing on the Manim Repository.

Running the Tests Using Poetry
******************************

> Once you are done with :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run manim's test suite by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` command and then running the command ``pytest`` to run the tests. 

Reviewer 3: Unrecognized reference (probably because of the comment above).

> .. important:: You should always run the test suite before making a PR. For other contributing guidelines, see :ref:`Contributing`

Reviewer 3: Unrecognized reference; this seems to be a tricky one. Changing it to ``:doc:`contributing``` does not seem to solve it, possibly because it comes from markdown file.

This is something that might have to be solved in a follow-up issue.

Code Formatting Using Poetry
****************************

> Once you are done with :ref:`Install Manim Poetry`, you can run the code formatter ``black`` by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` and then running the command ``black manim``. Or alternatively just use the command ``poetry run black manim``. 

Reviewer 3: Unrecognized reference (probably because of the comment above).

Manim Installation For Developers
=================================

	This documentation is for developers who want to contribute to ``ManimCommunity/manim``.

Installing Poetry
*****************

Poetry can be easily installed in any OS by just running the below command.

If your system has the ``curl`` program installed, which is usually true in Linux and Mac,

.. code-block:: bash
	
	  curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py | python

If you are a Windows developer and want to use PowerShell, you can use the below command.

.. code-block:: bash
	
	  (Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-poetry/poetry/master/get-poetry.py -UseBasicParsing).Content | python

> .. note:: Poetry can be installed by other ways also see `<https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: Poetry can be installed by other ways also, such as with ``pip``. See `<https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended>`_.
```

> .. note:: Poetry can be installed by other ways also `see <https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended>`_.

Reviewer 3: This renders as "... other ways also [see](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended).", which is not ideal.

```suggestion
.. note:: Poetry can be installed by other ways also see `<https://python-poetry.org/docs/#alternative-installation-methods-not-recommended>`_.
```

> It will add it to path automatically. In order to make sure you have poetry installed correctly, try running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It will add it to your executable files path automatically. In order to make sure you have poetry installed correctly, try running:
```

Author: No the afore mentioned one seem's correct.

Reviewer 3: It does not read like a grammatically correct sentence to me. Maybe a native speaker could have a look? :-)

Reviewer: "This command will add poetry to your system's $PATH. In order to make sure...."

If $PATH seems too system-specific, then use `path` (in backticks).

.. code-block:: bash

	poetry --version

.. note:: You may need to restart your shell in order for the changes to take effect.

See the `docs on installation python poetry for more information
<https://python-poetry.org/docs/>`_.

Installing System Dependencies
******************************

Please follow the instructions under :ref:`installing-manim` to install all dependencies. Then come back to this page to continue with the installation.

> .. important:: Windows Users can Ignore Pycairo Installation.

Reviewer 3: Question: Why is this mentioned here? As this is information that does not only concern developers, it should rather be in the corresponding windows installation guide. (This could also be done in a follow-up PR.)

Author: > As this is information that does not only concern developers,

Developers also need `pycairo` installed to run manim. They don't need to do it when they use poetry, as poetry handles it. Its already there in windows installation guide but this block says the don't need to do so. 
Soon that section can be removed from the doc also as the people there promised me that they will publish wheels to Pypi soon(within a week).

Reviewer 3: I would rather mention different circumstances due to `poetry` in the Windows installation guide (i.e., where the information is required) than on this page here.

Author: That guide is for users. Users don't need to install poetry but devs should. So it looks good to have it here.

Reviewer 3: Personally, I would have missed the block with the instruction -- that's why I would rather have it over at the actual installation instructions.

But I don't really have a strong opinion about it, leaving it here is fine for me too. In this case:

```suggestion
.. important:: Windows Users can ignore Pycairo Installation.
```

Additionally, ``git`` has to be installed. For instructions see `Documentation

> <https://git-scm.com/>`_.

Reviewer 3: The link could also directly go to the git documentation.

.. _install-manim-poetry:

Installing Manim using Poetry
*****************************

1.  First, clone the Manim repo locally using git.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim.git

    or

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		git clone git@github.com:ManimCommunity/manim.git

2.  Open a Terminal/Powershell/Command Prompt and cd into the cloned directory.

    .. code-block:: bash
		
		cd path/to/manim
    

>     .. note:: This path should contain a file called `pyproject.toml` if it doesn't contain it, you would need to go a level up.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    .. note:: This path should contain a file called ``pyproject.toml`` if it doesn't contain it, you would need to go a level up.
```

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry install

    .. note:: Poetry will create a virtual environment rooted at the current directory.
    
    You can select the desired python version using 

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry env use <python version you need>

    For example you can use for python 3.7.

    .. code-block:: bash
	
         poetry env use 3.7
     
    For more information about this you can visit the `docs
    <https://python-poetry.org/docs/managing-environments/>`_.

4.  Now you can activate the virtual environment ``Poetry`` has created by using the command below.

    .. code-block:: bash

       poetry shell
    
    Or if you want to run a single command use

    .. code-block:: bash

       poetry run manim -h

Now you are free to start developing on the Manim Repository.

Running the Tests Using Poetry
******************************

Once you are done with :ref:`install-manim-poetry`, you can run manim's test suite by activating a shell using ``poetry shell`` command and then running the command ``pytest`` to run the tests. 

.. code-block:: bash

   poetry shell
   pytest

> .. important:: You should always run the test suite before making a PR. For other contributing guidelines, see :ref:`contributing`

Reviewer 3: This should still be a working link. Here is a suggestion for a workaround.

```suggestion
.. important:: You should always run the test suite before making a PR. For other contributing guidelines, see `the guide for contributions to manim <../contributing.html>`_.
```

Manim Installation For Developers
=================================

	This documentation is for developers who want to contribute to ``ManimCommunity/manim``.

Installing Poetry
*****************

Poetry can be easily installed in any OS by just running the below command.

> If your system has the curl, usually in Linux and Mac,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your system has the ``curl`` program installed, which is usually true in Linux and Mac,
```

    .. note:: This path should contain a file called `pyproject.toml` if it doesn't contain it, you would need to go a level up.

> 3.  Use the below command to install python dependencies. This will use the default python version installed.

Reviewer: Oh I get it now, thanks for the clarification.
